Project Description
Evaluate the impact of earning report on stock price


Programming Requirements:
• Use liburl to retrieve historical price data from Yahoo Finance: A function retrieves
the adjusted close prices for selected S & P 500 stocks and SPY into memory.
• Create a set of classes such as class for stock to handle EPS estimate and price
information.
• Use member functions or independent functions for all calculation. Overload a few
arithmetic operators for vector/matrix.
• The stocks and their corresponding price information for each group should be
stored in a STL map, with stock symbol as its keys.
• The AAR and CAAR for 3 groups are presented in a matrix. The row of the matrix is
the group#, matrix columns are for AAR and CAAR.
• Use Excel Driver or gnuplot to show the CAAR from all 3 groups in one graph.
• Your program should be able to:
o Retrieve historical price data for all selected stocks. Parse the retrieved data for dates and adjusted closing prices.
1
o Calculate AAR and CAAR for each group
o Populate the stock maps and AAR/CAAR matrix. o Show an Excel graph with CAAR for all 3 groups.
• Your program should have a menu of 5 options:
o Retrieve historical price data for all stocks.
o Pull information for one stock from one group.
o Show AAR or CAAR for one group.
o Show the Excel graph with CAAR for all 3 groups. o Exit your program.

Calculation Details:
1. From Bloomberg terminal, sort all the stocks from S & P 500 into 3 categories
according to their 2nd quarter 2018 earnings releases into 3 group:
a. 1st group of stocks beat EPS Estimate, such as 5% to 10% above the estimate.
b. 2nd group of stocks meet EPS Estimate, such as 5%-10% around the estimate.
c. 3rd group of stock miss EPS Estimate, such as 5% to10% below the estimate.
2. Define as day “zero” for a stock the day the earning is released.
3. Implement Bootstrapping:
a. Sampling the stocks by randomly selecting 30 stocks from each group, total 90 stocks.
b. Use libcurl lib to retrieve 121 days of historical prices for each stock and SPY around the date of earning release (You could enhance our class example for this purpose).
c. For each stock calculate the daily returns Rit for 60 days before the day “zero” and 60 days after : t = -60, -59,...-1, 0, 1,..., 59, 60:
Rit = (Pricet – Pricet-1)/ Pricet-1
d. Calculate the corresponding daily return Rmt for SPY for the same days.
e. Define abnormal returns as the difference ARit= Rit–Rmt.
f. Calculate average daily abnormal returns for each group of stocks for all 120 reference days:
1N
AARt = N ∑ ARit
i=1
 2
g. Cumulate the returns on the first T days to CAAR:
T
CAAR = ∑ ARRt t=−60
h. Repeat steps a to g 30 times and calculate the average CAAR for 30 samplings:
4. Generate an Excel chart show the averaged CAAR of all three groups, and discuss the impact the earning releases on their stock prices. Is there any conclusion you could draw from your project?
